Main Page From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to: navigation, search Welcome to Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit. 5,404,195 articles in English Arts Biography Geography History Mathematics Science Society Technology All portals From today's featured article Manuel Marques de Sousa, Count of Porto Alegre (1804–1875) was an army officer, politician, abolitionist and monarchist of the Empire of Brazil. For most of the 1820s, he joined the struggle for Brazilian independence and then fought in the Cisplatine War. From 1835 to 1845, his native province of Rio Grande do Sul was engulfed in a secessionist rebellion, the Ragamuffin War, which he helped to suppress. In 1852, he led an army division during the Platine War, invading the Argentine Confederation and overthrowing its dictator. Porto Alegre was elected to the legislature of Rio Grande do Sul, and founded the provincial Progressive-Liberal Party—a coalition of Liberals like himself and some members of the Conservative Party. He later entered the lower house of the Brazilian parliament and was briefly Minister of War. After returning to the military as one of the chief Brazilian commanders during the Paraguayan War (1864), he became an active advocate for the abolition of slavery and a patron in the fields of literature and science. (Full article...) Recently featured: Kuiper belt Belgium national football team John Sherman Archive By email More featured articles... Did you know... Bust of Philip II of Macedon ... that after conquering and uniting most of ancient Greece, Philip II of Macedon (bust pictured) was assassinated while in Aegae for his daughter’s wedding and was succeeded by his son Alexander the Great? ... that in his song cycles, Graham Waterhouse has used a cello, a string quartet, or a Pierrot ensemble to complement the singer? ... that the Train Track Park, containing 7 kilometres (4.3 mi) of walking and biking trails, was built over the century-old route of the Jaffa–Jerusalem railway? ... that Krityunjai Prasad Sinha secured a second doctorate from the University of Bristol based on his post-doctoral work at Maurice Pryce's laboratory? ... that occupational exposure banding can quickly and accurately assign chemicals into specific hazard categories when quantitative exposure limits are not available? ... that the name of Japanese electronic rock band The Sixth Lie is a reference to a quotation from Claude Debussy? ... that the pendulum car was an experimental forerunner of the tilting train, but was not widely adopted on American railroads? ... that Lukas Lundin had a US$100 million eco-friendly super-yacht built in 2015? Recent additions Start a new article Nominate an article In the news Moon Jae-in A large-scale cyber attack involving ransomware causes severe disruptions around the world. Moon Jae-in (pictured) is elected President of South Korea. In the French presidential election, Emmanuel Macron defeats Marine Le Pen to become the next President of France. In horse racing, Always Dreaming, ridden by jockey John Velazquez, wins the Kentucky Derby. A border clash between Afghanistan and Pakistan results in military and civilian deaths on both sides. The maiden flight of the Chinese Comac C919 airliner takes place. Ongoing: Battle of Mosul Turkish purges Venezuelan protests Recent deaths: Mark Colvin Qian Qichen Gran Apache Gholamreza Pahlavi On this day... May 13 Lúcia Santos (middle) with Francisco and Jacinta Marto 1638 – Construction began in Delhi on the Red Fort, the residence of the Mughal emperors, now an iconic symbol of India. 1779 – Russian and French mediators negotiated the Treaty of Teschen to end the War of the Bavarian Succession. 1917 – Ten-year-old Lúcia Santos (pictured middle) and her cousins Francisco and Jacinta Marto reportedly began experiencing a Marian apparition near Fátima, Portugal, now known as Our Lady of Fátima. 1981 – Pope John Paul II was shot and critically wounded in St Peter's Square, Vatican City. 1992 – Li Hongzhi introduced Falun Gong in a public lecture in Changchun, Jilin province, China. John Nash (d. 1835) · Arthur Sullivan (b. 1842) · Lorna Hodgkinson (b. 1887) More anniversaries: May 12 May 13 May 14 Archive By email List of historical anniversaries Today's featured picture Skull of a male North Sulawesi babirusa, a species from the pig family endemic to Indonesia. Babirusas are notable for the long upper canines in the males that emerge vertically from the alveolar process, penetrating though the skin and curving backward over the front of the face and towards the forehead. Photograph: Didier Descouens Recently featured: Cepheus Sofia Church White-headed stilt Archive More featured pictures... Other areas of Wikipedia Community portal – Bulletin board, projects, resources and activities covering a wide range of Wikipedia areas. Help desk – Ask questions about using Wikipedia. Local embassy – For Wikipedia-related communication in languages other than English. Reference desk – Serving as virtual librarians, Wikipedia volunteers tackle your questions on a wide range of subjects. Site news – Announcements, updates, articles and press releases on Wikipedia and the Wikimedia Foundation. Village pump – For discussions about Wikipedia itself, including areas for technical issues and policies. Wikipedia's sister projects Wikipedia is hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other projects: Commons Free media repository MediaWiki Wiki software development Meta-Wiki Wikimedia project coordination Wikibooks Free textbooks and manuals Wikidata Free knowledge base Wikinews Free-content news Wikiquote Collection of quotations Wikisource Free-content library Wikispecies Directory of species Wikiversity Free learning materials and activities Wikivoyage Free travel guide Wiktionary Dictionary and thesaurus Wikipedia languages This Wikipedia is written in English. Started in 2001 (2001), it currently contains 5,404,195 articles. Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below. More than 1,000,000 articles: Deutsch Español Français Italiano Nederlands ??? Polski ??????? Svenska Ti?ng Vi?t More than 250,000 articles: ??????? Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu Català ?eština Euskara ????? ??? Magyar Norsk bokmål Português Român? Srpski Srpskohrvatski Suomi Türkçe ?????????? ?? More than 50,000 articles: Bosanski ????????? Dansk Eesti ???????? English (simple form) Esperanto Galego ????? Hrvatski Latviešu Lietuvi? Norsk nynorsk Sloven?ina Slovenš?ina ??? Complete list of Wikipedias Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Main_Page&oldid=777395573" Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Main Page Talk Variants Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons MediaWiki Meta-Wiki Wikispecies Wikibooks Wikidata Wikinews Wikiquote Wikisource Wikiversity Wikivoyage Languages ??????? ????????? Bosanski Català ?eština Dansk Deutsch Eesti ???????? Español Esperanto Euskara ????? Français Galego ??? Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ????? ??????? Latviešu Lietuvi? Magyar Bahasa Melayu Nederlands ??? Norsk bokmål Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Român? ??????? Simple English Sloven?ina Slovenš?ina ?????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Suomi Svenska ??? Türkçe ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? This page was last edited on 26 April 2017, at 22:51. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Cookie statement Mobile view